ReadMe for "MeisnerLongtermCageData.csv"Methods from Miesner et al. Ecol. Monogr. 2014	We conducted long-term lab cage experiments to determine the effect of temperature on pea aphid-A. ervi density dependence and population dynamics. In the first set of cages, 8 square pots, each containing a fava bean plant, were placed into four 30x60x60-cm cages enclosed with fine mesh screening. The bases of the plants were surrounded with plastic collars coated with fluon, a slippery substance, to reduce the movement of aphids between plants. Two of the cages were maintained in one growth chamber at 20C, while the other two were kept in a chamber at 27C. Four randomly selected plants in each cage were inoculated with 10 aphids of mixed instars. Aphids were allowed to acclimate for 4 h, and then 2 mated female A. ervi were added to each cage; 2 more were added after 2 and 4 d, for a total of 6 females released into each cage. Every 2-3 d, adult and juvenile aphids, and mummies, were counted. Under lab conditions, aphid populations can reach sufficient levels to kill potted plants. Therefore, if the aphid population on a single plant had dropped by 25% or more since the previous observation, or if the population had decreased for two consecutive observations, the plant was replaced with a young fava bean. When a plant was replaced, any remaining aphids were removed with the plant. Any mummies were left in the cage by removing leaves from plants and placing them on the cage floor. This was done to mimic conditions expected in the field, in which mummies (being inactive) survive even after the plant they are on dies. 	For a second set of long-term cages, we introduced parasitoids after allowing aphids to reach high densities; thus, the two sets of initial conditions (low aphid and low parasitoid densities, and high aphid and low parasitoid densities) bracket the possible initial aphid densities. This design gave us more statistical power to identify possible temperature-mediated density dependence affecting the population dynamics. Aphid populations were allowed to grow in the absence of parasitoids until day 35, at which point aphid populations in both 20C and 27C treatments had reached a steady state. Then 5 mated female A. ervi adults were added to each cage; 5 more were added on day 40. The experiment was terminated 6 wk after the addition of parasitoids, as no unparasitized aphids remained in the cages at 27C.	In the first set of cages (with low initial aphid densities), plants were replaced on average every 39.2 d over the 77 d of the experiment, while in the second set plants were replaced on average every 8.8 d over the 82 d of the experiment. In both cases there was no statistically significant difference in plant replacement between 20C and 27C treatments (t30 = 0.82, P = 0.42; t30 = Ð0.65, P = 0.52). The much higher replacement rate in the second set of cages was due to the much higher aphid densities. 
MetadataVariable	Units		Descriptionyear		numeric		year of experiment; in 2008 parasitoids were released soon after
 				aphids, in 2009 aphids were first allowed to reach high densityday		numeric		day of sampletreatment	binary		0=20C, 1=27Creplicate	numeric		separate cagesmummies		numeric		total number of mummies countedaphids		numeric		otal number of pea aphids counted